# Introduction-to-R

TOPICS COVERED
- The case for R
- The command line & variables
- Types of objects - numeric, int, character, data frames
    - Indexing
- Functions- creating functions
- Loops & if/else blocks
- Break! (I think)
- Importing data
- Tidying data + introduction to the tidyverse packages
- Data visualisation

WHY R?
- While spreadsheet environments like Excel are still quite powerful and useful for data work, the ability to programatically manipulate data brings with it some unique advantages.
- Scalable - Code that analyses a certain dataset is size-agnostic - the same code could theoretically be used to work with larger inputs that still have the same structure.
- Reproducible - A code-based analysis inherently creates workflow documentation, which can be useful to refer back on.
- Efficient - Code can easily be converted into an executable script, which helps automate tasks.

WHY R SPECIFICALLY?
- it's designed specifically by statisticians to be a statistical programming environment
- its base functionality allows for publication-quality figures
- its functionality has been expanded with hundreds of useful packages
- it's entirely free and open source!

RSTUDIO OR JUPYTER NOTEBOOK?

Either works, honestly - it's all a matter of preference.
Jupyter is arguably more conducive to documenting a research workflow with its inline outputs and Markdown functionality, but RStudio's interface makes it great for putting together scripts and debugging. RStudio also contains a host of useful point-and-click features for things like importing data and viewing data frame structures.

COMMAND LINE

Command line is a text interface program which takes in commands from the user snd issues it to the program. For example, if you submit 1+1 into the command line, it will be followed by a result (2) generated by the program. 

```{r}
    1 + 1
    > 2
```

```{r}
    8 - 1
    > 7
```

```{r}
    3 * 4
    > 12
```

```{r}
    6 / 2
    > 3
```

VARIABLES 

Variables allow you to store values, objects, lists, matrices, etc. 
Variables allow you to easily access the value/object. You can name your variable however you wish! 
You can name your variables using letters but it is often more useful to use words to name variables. A standard notation for naming variables is using underscores to separate words, e.g.:
 - my_var
 - cinema_income
In R, you can assign a value/object to a variable using an arrow ( <- ). You can print a variable in R by simply typing the variable name. 

```{r} 
    my_var <- 3
    
    my_var
     > 3
```

Just as you can manipulate values, you can manipulate variables. 

```{r}
    my_var * 2
     > 6
    
    my_var / 3
     > 1
```
